Throughout the course of the semester, I have learned a tremendous amount about the digital humanities field in general. Prior to taking this course, I did not have any introduction to the digital humanities field, coding, embroidery, 3D printing, or anything of the like. Therefore, I was not sure how much success I would find when it came to completing assignments throughout the semester. If I would have been asked what digital humanities was prior to this class, I probably would have said something similar to the relationship between the humanities and technology. Now I realize that digital humanities is so much more than that. While it does touch on the humanities and the technologies involved in them, it goes much deeper than that. We have learned about issues across a wide range of topics and how these are affected by data and the preservation of it. This interdisciplinary topic covers a vast array of disciplines and teaches us as students how to analyze, interpret, and understand in a multitude of different ways. I was pleasantly surprised to see how much I learned and was able to accomplish. 
There were several themes that I noticed throughout the class from readings, class time, as well as projects and workshops. The first theme that I have taken away from the course is that data is a gift that can be used in a variety of different ways for good. In addition, we touched on problems and issues in our world such as race and gender that make themselves known in the data world. Lastly, we learned about the history of data and how our data has developed and grown throughout the course of many years and what that means for us as a society. I want to connect the first theme to when we visited Van Pelt and looked at the books and artifacts that have been saved from the past. These books tell us so much about our history and being able to see them in person in their original condition only adds to what knowledge and insights we can gain from preserving artifacts. While, digitizing these works is important for preservation that essentially cannot be destroyed the same as a piece of paper can, there is something to be said about the importance of preserving them in their physical state as well. Another common theme of the course has to do with the important issues that are involved in the digital humanities world. I want to connect this to the reading, “Difficult Heritage and the Complexities of Indigenous Data.” This reading touched on how access to data collection by and about Native Americans is bi-fold: it is both well-intended and problematic. While it is important to celebrate the histories of these peoples, it also brings up a past for them that was by no means easy. There is an ethical question that comes with topics and issues like these. What I have learned is that we must take our time through these processes and be very thoughtful about the consequences and impacts it may have on a large number of people. It is important to uplift and celebrate rather than emphasize the negatives that people may not want to face again. Lastly, the theme of technological growth was present in this course as well as in our society. This theme made me think of the lecture from Ruha Benjamin on AI and Human Values. Obviously, AI has been growing every single day and this growth has implications far beyond what we see with our eyes. Professor Benjamin emphasizes what these technological advancements can mean for issues such as discrimination. This technology can deepen discrimination through biases and certain algorithms. She asked listeners to think about the technologies that we use and how they have the power to be incredibly problematic. 
The workshops that we completed this semester all shared a variety of different messages about digital humanities. For example, they gave us insights into so many different sources of media and technologies that I would have otherwise never had access to. I was also able to learn so much about the history behind these technologies which gave me insight into how they have been used in the past and have grown to mold to different eras of our lives. The patterns that showed up from class to class emphasized the interdisciplinary nature of digital humanities and how the field shows up in so many different areas of our lives. These connections better taught me the importance of finding links between two things even if they are not obvious. If it weren’t for this course, I would have never even thought about how technology can enhance important issues creating problems in our society or the various forms of technology and media that are present in prisons, such as Eastern State.
Overall, I now find myself to have a much stronger interest in how the digitization of our world affects so many important issues. I am very proud of the coding that I completed in projects such as my [Printing in Prisons essay](https://printinginprisons.org/blog/smithg/), as well as all that I was able to learn about different technologies in Education Commons through [my EC baseball project presenation](baseball.png). I think I did a great job in connecting the lessons I learned from the workshops that I attended, such as the [embroidery workshop](embroideryworkshop.png) and the [mixtape workshop](mixtapeworkshop.png), to broader themes that we have learned throughout class. One thing I wish I did better was having more patience and grace with myself. Like I mentioned previously, I was very new to everything we learned in this class, especially coding. I found myself getting very frustrated when my code wouldn’t work or my website was not displaying how I wanted it to. If I could go back and do some more research on coding, I think this would have made the process a bit easier and much less frustrating for me. Ultimately, I feel satisfied with everything I learned during this course and I look forward to keeping these themes in mind in the future and putting to use the new skills I learned throughout class and workshops. 

[my EC baseball project presenation](baseball.png)
[embroidery workshop](embroideryworkshop.png)
[mixtape workshop](mixtapeworkshop.png)

[Printing in Prisons essay](https://printinginprisons.org/blog/smithg/).
